okay I am gonna play a game called bad
writing better writing and we're doing
this in an interesting point because in
some ways with just one good episode the
TV show has to a limited extent redeemed
itself right so we're not in a situation
where I'm criticizing it for having
absolutely unbelievably terrible writing
which is what many of you will be used
to hearing me say you Stephen me lament
um do you remember that several seasons
ago Daenerys Targaryen left behind a man
who loved her as the commander of marine
a man who fought against his own fellow
commanders betrayed his own side to come
over Institue sir said it's a little bit
different in the books than it is in the
show it's significantly different like
everything at this point okay if you
were going to commit to this trope this
storyline that Daenerys feels abandoned
by everyone let down by everyone nobody
loves her she has no family she's all
alone the only person who was her friend
we didn't really see that I know but the
only person who was her friend has just
been decapitated right she feels there's
nobody you can trust you can't even
trust Jon Snow right
you know what would have made sense you
know what would have been better writing
would be that she sits down sobbing and
dixit dictates a letter and says come
back to me I need you come back whether
you come alone or bring back my army for
marine those are the people who love me
you really love me you know that that
one man these people don't love me that
would have been real that would have
been going all the way and the
performance would have to match that
level of commitment you'd have to
actually have her breakdown and realize
wow I had something special maybe with
the city of marine maybe with you know
the people there but maybe also with
that with that one man who really loved
her alright and these these people don't
really love you we don't get a whole lot
of dialogue to prove it but the turning
point of this episode is supposed to be
her realization that Jon Snow doesn't
really love her
right so one thing that's bad writing
but there could be better writing like I
think with all these things if you're
gonna commit to one of the themes you
really have to take it all the way now
credit works do in this episode the
general theme about you know the
destruction of the city okay they take
it all the way they don't just have a
little bit of cars they'll say well
there were well if you're gonna make an
omelet you got to break some eggs no we
get the full destruction we get the full
horrors of war including rape murder
fire gets a lot of solid stone castles
are suspiciously destructible we get
solid stone castles collapsing as if
they're made out of cards or made at a
glass or something it's okay they commit
to that they take it absolutely the way
okay
no they're a bunch of characters so they
didn't commit to one thing or another
what was the point with various now in
the books varies represents something
totally different he represents a
particular conspiracy they have
particular reasons for why he's attached
to that particular family it's
mysterious but it's it's particular in
this show what varies is trying to
demonstrate is that he'll switch sides
on a dime he doesn't give a [ __ ] about
you he doesn't give he doesn't care that
he used to serve you five minutes ago
he'll turn on you so what he does
doesn't make sense you remember we had
that scene last episode where he
basically confesses to Tyrion that he's
now gonna turn against Daenerys early in
this episode you might only notice this
on a second viewing he reveals he's
trying to poison Daenerys Targaryen yes
this little girl come in and she
complains she doesn't eat and he's at
home his he indicates his plot is foiled
they'll try going so it's not really
subtext but we have it hinted at that he
was even trying to poison
Daenerys which makes sense so he's
trying to poison her assassin so last
episode or this is he should have killed
tyrion tyrion knows too much
tyrion does indeed as it's shown to us
tyrion and rats Emoto lets him down root
tyrion is the one who tells Daenerys who
results in his execution so if you
going to commit to that all the way that
either you have to have him varies has
to kill Tyrion or you know you you
really take that trope all the way where
it's just look he's a guy he'll switch
sides in the drop of the dime turn that
whatever no notice pack and go switch
sides and then we see that he should he
shouldn't sacrifice his life it makes no
sense he should leave town or whatever
he should put on a disguise and
disappear or whatever he should he
should continue playing the game of
Thrones by his rules - he said hey he's
seen more than six kings come and go in
his career this is another one well bad
bet it stack up the deck let's let's
draw again maybe maybe better luck next
time it does not make sense to present
this man a lifelong intelligence agent
or whatever double agent you know
serving many sides as suddenly a man of
principle when they've made no effort
the screenwriters to tell us what those
principles are that he would die for we
don't have that sense of him being a man
of principle and all he can say for
himself is that he wants good people to
be on the throne instead of bad people
well if you're such a judgemental guy
doesn't make sense what do you think you
knew you knew Tyrion wasn't gonna back
you up
and you knew you know there are a lot of
smaller characters where I wish they had
committed to something or another what
is the deal with Davos what what is his
motivation why is he in this war again
you kind of have to commit to one thing
or another you know is he a free agent
is Izzy this or is he that um the
ultimate lack of committal so much of
anything I think is Jon Snow himself
right okay before we come to Jon Snow
let's talk about the religious themes a
little bit again it used to be a big
deal that varies was opposed to the rule
of Stannis Baratheon because Stannis
Baratheon worked for this supernatural
force
the Lord of Light in this religion and
that Voorhies had his particular
background in with black magic
put it that way and he was a staunchly
secular anti-magic and a person well
again i what does the naraz represent
what to the dragons represent their kind
of questions there and he could have had
a plotline that made sense that way
Melissa you're far enough in the books
to know this Davos also in the books he
is a really strong connection to
religion at one point he tries to
assassinate Melisandre his story arc is
defined in very religious terms of
course even Cersei Lannister religion is
a huge part of her story arc it's just
kind of weird here I mean at least one
of the major surviving characters at
this point in the story could be
seriously motivated by religion I mean
Jon Snow you literally died and came
back from the dead doesn't change his
motivation or character in any way nope
just same old Jon at this point
Jon Snow is truly just a nondescript
hero there's almost nothing else that
can be said he's a nondescript good guy
doesn't have particular motivations but
you really has very few particular
characteristics as they've realized you
okay but Jon Snow
not only did you die and come back from
the dead your brother
you knew quite well brand I mean bran
was his brother or they really did grow
up together they're not estranged
Brothers didn't grow up it's not like a
divorced family where they grew up in
separate homes you grew up with bran and
bran has come back from a supernatural
journey beyond the wall with magical
superpowers and you don't even not even
question of faith it's not with how you
believe this to be true it's literally
true and it's verified for you okay so
you know you might think Jon would feel
strongly about say restoring the
religion of the old gods
he might have contempt for the religion
of the seven or the religion of rule or
or it could go another way he might see
himself as switching sides from the old
gods to reward cuz he was brought back
from the in the TV show at least he's
brought back from the dead
by the red priestess but it could be the
opposite he could say look
you know these magical white trees the
magic trees are really where it's at and
that's what his brothers attached you
and that's the religion of his fall his
adoptive father so there's got to be
something there right again this this
particular episode I can't say is a
spectacle of bad writing you know the
problem is it's surrounded by so much
bad writing all the episodes leading up
to it's been so bad for such a long time
in effect if you watch this I said if
you watch this episode in isolation the
character of Daenerys Targaryen makes
sense within this one episode many
people are already complaining if you
look back over the last nine years it
really doesn't make sense so I mean this
is the woman who freed the slaves this
is the woman who made a long series of
morally loaded you know decisions one of
returning points early on Melissa I
think you will read this in the books
already is when she refuses to allow the
women to be raped by the by the horse
Lords of Essos by the Dothraki
the Dothraki sack it's really early they
sack and loot a town and she says no he
can't rape and enslave these people and
the answer for them is like well what do
you mean our whole economy consists of
yeah look that this is what we're doing
that was at the point where the Dothraki
are trying to store up money to put her
on a boat and send her back to reconquer
Westeros which would have made the
novel's quite a bit shorter if that had
worked out that could have couldn't
wrapped up in volume 2 or something if
that worked out you know is this long
series of kind of morally loaded
decisions he makes that sort of defines
her her character um I mean in the TV
show it's cut really short but she
marries a man she doesn't love and
marine for the sake of the peace of the
city oh she has that short-lived
marriage in the books it's a bigger deal
the books it seems like everything takes
more time because so many years have got
passed since they so this is someone
with some characteristics of self
sacrifice self-discipline public
spiritedness doing doing the right thing
because the right thing to do and now
all of a sudden I mean again I just feel
they didn't commit to it they didn't go
you know all the way with it
her her pathos here is the sense the
nobody loves her nobody appreciates her
nobody wants her she can only rule by
fear and by destroying this city she's
gonna make the Seven Kingdoms afraid of
her and in awe of her and and so on and
so forth there's a really strange lack
of long-term thinking on her part you
could say this about John frankly and
all the characters maybe all the
characters have bron-bron seriously the
only guy who wants to founded dynasty
who wants to start a household or sorry
I shouldn't say royalism he wants to
start a feudal household that's going to
carry on for generations he talks about
the future if you're Daenerys Targaryen
one dragon can't lay any eggs two
dragons can lay eggs right it's
significant in the books you know the
Daenerys believes she's barren that she
can't have children after her
miscarriage and presumably in the next
book this will change but we don't know
maybe she'll remain barren so her sense
of who her children or her legacy is
caught up in the Dragons so you know you
could be scouring the Seven Kingdoms for
other dragon eggs they're an artifact
that's around it's it's stated in both
the books and the TV show it's and
they're very valuable but it's a known
thing there are plenty of dragon eggs
around and most people just regard them
as something solids don't like a
gemstone it's just a curiosity but no
they actually can't someone like
dinero's actually can warm them up and
hatch them to bring new dragons in the
world mmm seems to be a very strange
lack of interest on her part in the
future of her dynasty or what is
supposed to make her dynasty different
from the tennessee's that came before
you know in Essos you were ending
slavery I thought the whole point was
gonna be that in Westeros she was gonna
end feudalism she was gonna answer them
she said does anyone remember what she
said she was gonna break the wheel you
guys what was that supposed to mean this
is gonna burn everything down and rule
on top of the ashes it's not coherent
there's supposed to be some plan for
something better that that that specific
speech on the TV show bring the
villagers was really saying she was
gonna
bring an end to feudalism in Westeros so
I thought something other than maybe
democracy you name it again in the books
there were interesting discussions of
democracy in the TV show absolutely none
unless you count the fact that Jon Snow
himself was elected at the Nights Watch
out of that alone you could have had
some kind of interesting discourse you
could have had Jon saying to her you
know where I come from the northern end
of the north we actually have this thing
called voting elections that's how we
choose our leaders you know that could
have been something was okay this is how
you break the wheel this is how you
change things they say you put a check
on the power of rose there were a lot of
opportunities for better writing so
that's I gotta say for this episode
however as I said my first video on the
topic this was not a disaster it stands
up as a work of art a stands up as a
film in its own right it really is too
bad that they're committed to having all
the characters say so little that's
continued the number of lines of
dialogue is very few all right sorry the
other thing was gonna say was when you
look at something like Daenerys or
anyone there's this weird lack of
thinking with the future there's also a
total lack of interest in the past right
okay so I mean if if Daenerys really
believes that her right to rule is based
on her bloodline and her hair color
right she should probably be interested
in the lost city in Essos that her
family comes from and where where
dragons come from and so on and so forth
we get referred to on the TV show a lot
as Valyrian steel what is Valyria what
makes Valyria special what is this
special thing with source okay and you
don't have to run up the budget you
could just have dialogue could you just
had her talking to her her best friend
before she was the captain you could
have had her talking to her maid
servants and look you know what is this
word Valyrian why is Valyrian steel the
best kind of steel why do you people
like what's special about me I haven't
learned but what does that matter you
know again the stakes would be different
if you had some discussion of the past
and some discussion of what she was
trying to accomplish for the future I
also think I think one of the best
dramatic devices for raising the stakes
and just for intellectually deepening
what's going on the plot is to have
people discuss different plans so what
is the what is the future scenario now
what's she gonna do with John Snow
if she thinks John Snow doesn't love her
has betrayed her as let her down and
that's what this very briefly this
episode shows you Jon Snow doesn't love
her or doesn't love her enough and he
has betrayed her
both tech both technically and actually
and he's literate okay she could have
said to him or she could have said the
grey worm again miss Andy's gone she
could have said to someone she could
have said when I'm done burning down
this city
I'm sending John Snow back to the wall
he was lord of the Lord Commander of the
Nights Watch he broke his vows he can be
sent back there you know he can rebuild
the wall he can refine and he can live
the rest of his life in exile at the
wall because he turned me BAM
even if it never happens even if she
falls back you seem just talking about
the possibility and let's say Tyrion is
in the room for staring now has no
character and it's not interesting
someone else intelligent and it's a no
no no don't do that do this instead
here's another possibility someone else
suggests the third possibility when you
have several strategic possibilities put
forward I think it really enriches the
plot and raises the stakes in many ways
and when you don't do that one of the
problems that this show for many years
has always been that any action
undertaken by the characters neither
seems heroic nor villainous because in
every situation it's like well what do
you expect that was the only thing she
could have done there was only one thing
she could do everyone's kind of backed
into a corner heroes and villains alike
where they don't seem to have other
options and that makes things shallow
and makes them ethically insignificant
okay guys
only one episode left only one question
is yet to be resolved will bran get his
castle and his bride the fate of Ron we
had bra and give the the philosophical
position of the showrunners didn t the
UH the script writers stepped out from
behind the curtain and had bran deliver
us this philosophical lecture that their
theory of government the only political
philosophy this show
left in contrast to the book is that you
know the most brutal and tyrannical
person wins the war and then establishes
a new household and that's got to be
bran I thought at any moment bran might
step out I thought bran might interrupt
the fight between the hound between
Sandor Clegane and and the mountain cuz
where is he shouldn't he be lurking in
the shadows somewhere with a crossbow so
that's it the only plot thread yet to be
tied up is will bran get his castle ok
guys see you next week
for the last time